1.1 Networks, packets and protocols

A computer network consists of host and routers
Host are computers that run apps - ex Web browser 
Routers are machines who job is to relay, or forward information from once communication to another

Routers are important because connecting every host is impractical 
A few hosts connect to one router, which connects to a new one, and then set up a new network. 

Packets are sequence of byte interpreted by programs/
Packet: contains control infos for the network and sometimes include user data. 
Ex: using to indentify packet's destination

Protocol: Agreement about how packets exchanged by communicating programs and what they mean.
A Protocol tells how packets are structured. 
Ex: The Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP) 

Implementing a useful network requires solving numerous problems
TCP/IP is one of the solution for that 
Network could be understand as network that are using TCP/IP protocol suite
The main protocols in the TCP/IP protocol is: Internet Protocol, Transmission Control Protocol

In TCP/IP, the bottom layer consists of underlying communication channels 
These channels are used by the network layer, deals with the problems of packets transferring
The single network layer protocol in the TCP/IP suite is the Internet Protocol

The Internet Protocol provides a datagram service.
Each IP packet has to contain the address of its destination. 
IP is only a best-effort protocol: It attempts to deliver each packet,
but it can be lose, reorder, or duplicate packets in the network.|

The layer above IP is called the transport layer. It provides two choices: TCP and UDP
Have one fuction in common: Addressing.
Provides different kinds of transport, which are used by appication protocols. 
Both TCP and UDP use addresses, called port numbers, to identify applications within hosts.

TCP is designed for prevention against losses in the host-to-host channel provide by IP.
Using TCP is similar in many ways to file input/output(I/O)
UDP, on the other hand, extends the IP data-gram service so it works between applications instead of between hosts.


1.2 About Addreses

Before a program can communicate, it must tell the network to identify the other program.
It takes two pieces to identify a particular program: an Internet Addreses and a port number.

Internet address are binary numbers.
They come in two flavors, IPv4 and IPv6.
IPv4 are 32 bits long, while IPv6 are 128 bits long.
Ipv4 are written as a group of four decimal numbers seperated by periods,
this is called the dotted-quad notation.
The sixteen bytes of an IPv6 address, on the other hand, are represented as groups of hexidecimal digits, seperated by colons.

Each address refers to the connection between a host and an underlyingcommunication channel, in other words, a network interface
A host may have serveral interface.
An IA identifies a host as well as its connection to the network

The port number of TCP/UDP is always interpreted relative to an Internet address. 
Port numbers are 16-bit unsigned binary numbers, so each one is in the range 1 to 65,535.

In each ver of IP, certain special-purpose addresses are defined. One of these that is worth knowing is the loopback address
Another group of IPv4 addresses reserved for a special purpose includes those reserved for "private use".
This includes IPv4 addresseswith 10 or 192.168
These address were originally designated for use in private networks that are not part of a global Internet.
Today they are often use in house and small offices.
It maps (private address, port) pairs in packets on one of its interfaces to (public address, port) pairs on the other interface.

A related class contains the link-local, or "autoconfig" addresses. For IPv4, such addresses begin with 169.254. |
For IPv6, it starts with FE8.
Such addresses can only be used for communication between hosts connected to the same network, routers will not forward them.

Regular IP addresses refer to a single destination, multicast address
potentially refer to an arbitary number of destinations.
IPv4 multicast addresses have a first number in the range 224 - 239
Ipv6 starts with FF.

1.3 About Names 
Hosts are being accustomed to referring by name. 
Use of names instead of addresses is a convenience feature that is independent of the basic service 
provided by TCP/IP
Name-resolution services can access information from a wide variety of sources.
Two of the primary sources are DNS and local configuration databases.
DNS is a distributed database that maps domain names to Internet addresses and other infos.
The DNS protocol allow hosts connected to the Internet to retrieve infos from the database.

1.4 Clients and Servers
Cient progarm initates communication. while the server waits passively for and then responds to clients that contact it.
Today, both compose the application. 
It describes the situation where server makes a particular capability - ex, a database service - available to any client that is able to communicate with it. 

A program is acting as a client or server determines the genral form of its use of the sockets API. 
With the sockets API, the server can learn the client's address informationwhen it receives the initial communicationfrom the client.

The client find out a server's IP address and port number
using name-resolution services or from the URL.

Finding a port is not difficult, but the client must be able to learn what it is
port number 21 has been assigned to the FTP

1.5 What Is A Socket ?

A socket is an abstraction through with an application may send and receive data.
It allows an application to plug into the network and communicate with other apps.

The main types of sockets in TCP/IP are stream sockets and datagram sockets.
Stream sockets use TCP provide reliable byte-stream service.
UDP provide a best-effort datagram service
A TCP/IP socket is uniquely identified by an Internet address, an end-to-end protocol(TCP or UDP), and a port number.
